标题: 香港积极参与第六届中国国际进口博览会
链接: https://sc.isd.gov.hk/TuniS/www.info.gov.hk/gia/general/202311/05/P2023110500285.htm
--------------------------------------------------
A record high of more than 300 Hong Kong enterprises are participating in the sixth China International Import Expo (CIIE) being held from today (November 5) to November 10 at the National Exhibition and Convention Center in Shanghai. The Chief Executive, Mr John Lee, led a Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) Government delegation to attend the opening ceremony and relevant events today.
Mr Lee, together with the Financial Secretary, Mr Paul Chan, and the Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development, Mr Algernon Yau, attended the opening ceremony of the CIIE and the Hongqiao International Economic Forum (Hongqiao Forum) this morning.
Later, Mr Lee accompanied Premier Li Qiang in touring the Hong Kong Exhibition Area at the China Pavilion. Under the theme "Hong Kong - New Contributions in the New Era", the Hong Kong Exhibition Area showcased how the HKSAR has been giving full play to the advantage of enjoying strong support of the motherland and being closely connected to the world under "one country, two systems" in the 26 years since Hong Kong's return to the motherland, the achievements as well as a series of development blueprints.
In the afternoon, Mr Lee attended the Hongqiao Forum and delivered a speech at the parallel session on "Channelling Global Business through Hong Kong" jointly organised by the HKSAR Government, the Ministry of Commerce and the Hong Kong Trade Development Council (HKTDC). This year the Hongqiao Forum, which is themed "Joining Hands in Development, Opening Up for the Future", features Hong Kong as the theme of a parallel session for the first time.
Mr Lee said, "The national development offers the best opportunities for Hong Kong. With our country’s staunch support, Hong Kong will enjoy greater room for development. We will continue to give full play to our unique role as a connecting platform in 'going global and attracting foreign investment' for the country.
"Hong Kong is not only a 'super-connector' but also a 'super value-adder'. In addition to fostering collaboration, we also offer diversified professional services, comprehensive networks and solutions. We welcome international and Mainland enterprises to build their business here and leverage Hong Kong’s advantages to achieve 'win-win co-operation'."
A number of leaders of Hong Kong's commercial and industrial sectors were invited to the Forum to share their insights on Hong Kong's unique position and advantages in different areas. They included the Group Chairman of the Fung Group, Dr Victor Fung; the Chairman of Esquel Group, Ms Marjorie Yang; the Chairman of the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, Dr Peter Wong; the Chief Executive Officer of Airport Authority Hong Kong, Mr Fred Lam; the Vice Chairman of the Board of the West Kowloon Cultural District Authority and the Chairman of M Plus Museum Limited, Mr Bernard Chan; and the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer of SenseTime, Dr Xu Li.
In addition, Mr Chan delivered a speech at the parallel session on "Revitalizing Real Economy with Financial Resources" to elaborate how Hong Kong would make use of its unique status and advantages under the "one country, two systems" principle, in promoting financial services to better serve the needs of the real economy, thereby contributing to the country's high-quality development and global green transformation.
Mr Chan said, "Hong Kong is a prime window connecting the capital markets and investors of the Mainland and the world, a premier service platform for our country's high-level two-way opening up, and the most preferred gateway for Mainland capital and enterprises to go global, and international investors and businesses to enter the Mainland market. Looking ahead, we will continue to expand and deepen the mutual access between the financial markets of the Mainland and Hong Kong, and assist in promoting Renminbi internationalisation in a prudent and orderly manner."
On the invitation of the Ministry of Commerce, Mr Lee also attended the "Invest in China Year" Summit held during the CIIE to share with participating Mainland and overseas enterprises on how Hong Kong capitalises on the distinctive advantages to attract foreign enterprises and assist Mainland enterprises in going global.
Mr Lee was then accompanied by Mr Yau and the Chairman of the HKTDC, Dr Peter Lam, to visit and show support to Hong Kong enterprises at the Hong Kong Product Pavilion and Hong Kong Service Pavilion set up by the HKTDC at the Enterprise and Business Exhibition. A total of 60 Hong Kong enterprises showcase quality Hong Kong products and services covering food, innovation and technology, professional services, logistics, information technologies, finance, architecture, design, as well as branding and market promotion at the pavilions, an increase of 28 per cent compared with last year. The exhibition area of Invest Hong Kong at the Hong Kong Service Pavilion highlights Hong Kong's advantages, while that of the Hong Kong Tourism Board promotes Hong Kong's latest tourism appeal.
Mr Lee will return to Hong Kong tomorrow (November 6).
Ends/Sunday, November 5, 2023
Issued at HKT 18:59
NNNN