标题: 行政長官出席金蛇迎春慶豐年之香港賀歲煙花滙演致辭
链接: https://www.info.gov.hk/gia/general/202501/30/P2025013000428.htm
--------------------------------------------------
以下是行政長官李家超今日（一月三十日）在金蛇迎春慶豐年之香港賀歲煙花滙演的致辭：
王冬勝主席（香港上海滙豐銀行有限公司主席）、廖宜建行政總裁（香港上海滙豐銀行有限公司亞太區聯席行政總裁）、各位嘉賓、各位朋友：
大家新年好！今日是乙巳蛇年的大年初二，我首先在此向大家祝福，蛇年身體健康，身壯力健，心想事成。
大年初二的煙花匯演，是香港每年賀歲活動的重頭戲。全港市民和來自海內外的旅客，都可以觀賞在維港醉人夜景的襯托下，絢麗多彩、璀璨奪目的煙花。
今年的賀歲煙花別開生面，將呈現大熊貓的圖案，與所有觀眾分享香港大熊貓家庭共六位成員的喜悅。相信大家都留意到，香港每年的新春煙花都有不同的新元素，為維港上空帶來新的璀璨，就如靈蛇象徵的靈活變通，與香港人靈活應變、創新求進的精神互相輝映。
新的一年，特區政府會繼續推動香港變革創新，靈活應對各種挑戰和機遇，繼續發揮「一國兩制」的獨特優勢，加強內聯外通的工作，讓香港在國際舞台上不斷大放異彩。
我知道維港兩岸數十萬計的市民和旅客，都很期待今晚的煙花匯演，希望大家好好享受這個晚上。我在此感謝今年成立160周年的香港上海滙豐銀行，贊助今晚的煙花匯演，為這個喜慶的節日帶來更多歡樂。
我祝願國家富強昌盛，香港繁榮興旺，市民事事如意。接着我用英語來歡迎來自不同地方的朋友。
I'm delighted to join you at this fireworks extravaganza. Last night, we welcomed the Year of the Snake with a night parade. Tonight, we cheer it on with a fabulous fireworks show.
Hong Kong, our vibrant city, is shining brighter than ever with its unique blend of Eastern and Western cultures. As we marvel with and over the dazzling pyrotechnics lighting up the skies above Victoria Harbour, let's remember that the display is more than a cheering spectacle – more importantly, every burst of colour celebrates the diversity and soaring promise of our home.
The snake symbolises wisdom, resilience and renewal in Chinese culture. Hong Kong has long thrived on its dynamic spirit and adaptability, endlessly mingling tradition and innovation. In the Year of the Snake, Hong Kong will revitalise its strengths and boundless future.
I invite you all to enjoy what Hong Kong has to offer in the Year of the Snake. Alongside magnificent mega events such as this evening's, our city never fails to delight in its thriving wine and dine scene, breath-taking natural scenery, East-meets-West arts and cultural bounty, world-class sports and non-stop entertainment.
My thanks to HSBC for sponsoring tonight's fireworks display. HSBC celebrates its 160th anniversary this year. My warmest congratulations on your most meaningful anniversary!
I wish you all a very healthy and successful Year of the Snake. Enjoy the show, as we look forward to an even brighter tomorrow.
祝願各位蛇年進步，心想事成，大家共同在這個歡樂的春節氣氛裏欣賞我們今晚璀璨的煙花。多謝大家！
完
2025年1月30日（星期四）
香港時間21時45分