标题: 行政长官出席「你好，香港！」启动礼致辞
链接: https://sc.isd.gov.hk/TuniS/www.info.gov.hk/gia/general/202302/02/P2023020200518.htm
--------------------------------------------------
以下是行政长官李家超今日（二月二日）在「你好，香港！」启动礼的致辞：
Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, friends from around the world,
Hello everybody! Hello from Hong Kong! A very warm welcome to this ceremony that marks the launch of the "Hello Hong Kong" campaign.
Some three months ago at the Global Financial Leaders' Investment Summit, I told the world that Hong Kong was back on the centre stage again. Today, I am happy to tell you that Hong Kong is welcoming every one of you to join us on our centre stage, for Hong Kong is now seamlessly connected to the Mainland of China and the whole international world. There will be no isolation, no quarantine, and no restriction on experiencing our great wine and dine scenes, on doing business, on joining events and outings, on doing sports, on enjoying the hustle and bustle of Asia's world city, and so much more.
Indeed, this is the perfect time for tourists, business travellers and investors, from near and far, to come and say "Hello Hong Kong"!
The "Hello Hong Kong" campaign will focus on four major areas that will put the international spotlight on Hong Kong again.
First and foremost, we have prepared 500 000 free air tickets to welcome tourists from every part of the world to come to Hong Kong. This, ladies and gentlemen, is probably the world’s biggest welcome ever!
Beyond our well-known shopping and dining paradise, we will introduce our guests to the new and magnificent Hong Kong Palace Museum and M+ museum at the burgeoning West Kowloon Cultural District; a scenic ride on the latest generation of our Peak Tram and the brand new "Crystal+" Ngong Ping 360 cable car; new attractions at the Ocean Park and the Hong Kong Disneyland Resort; or quite simply, many more ways to take a deep breath and enjoy our great outdoors.
And they can also take advantage of an array of special offers, vouchers and other incentives to make their experience in Hong Kong all the more fantastic and memorable.
Second, riding on tourism qualities, strengths in financial, business and trade, as well as unrivaled connectivity to the huge Mainland market, we are busy welcoming back mega events and giant trade shows to boost our MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conventions and Exhibitions) sector.
To give you a preview of the next two months, we will be hosting sporting and outdoor events like the Hong Kong Marathon, the Hong Kong Sevens rugby tournament and the 100-kilometre Trailwalker; arts and cultural delights like the Art Basel, the Museum Summit and the Hong Kong Arts Festival; as well as top trade shows, exhibitions and competitions like the International Jewellery Show, the WOW Summit and the Vis East Moot, to name just a few.
I can assure you that more, and indeed many more, are in the pipeline to entice more high value-added overnight visitors to Hong Kong, the premier MICE destination of Asia.
Third, we are going all out to tell our many good Hong Kong stories to overseas and Mainland counterparts. Hong Kong enjoys unparalleled advantages under the unique "one country, two systems" principle. I will personally carry the promotional messages of our prowess as the world’s freest economy and China’s international financial centre, when I visit Saudi Arabia and the UAE (United Arab Emirates) in the coming week.
Business communities and professional groups will also reach out to various parts of the world throughout the year, to tell their global counterparts the great and true stories of Hong Kong.
Fourth, we are inviting prominent guests, from business heavyweights and political dignitaries, to media chiefs and influencers, to come to Hong Kong and see for themselves the welcoming atmosphere, promising opportunities, and many exciting developments and new attractions here.
They will take home their fond experience and memories of Hong Kong and share them with their personal and business circles. Like a ripple, our compelling appeal as a metropolis that is wide open for business and leisure will continue to spread and reach different parts of the world.
Friends around the world, everyone in Hong Kong, from transport operators to business owners and performers, have been gearing up to welcome you. We can’t wait to say hello, personally, to each and every one of you.
See you in Hong Kong, and wish you all a healthy and prosperous Year of the Rabbit!
Next, let me say a few words in Putonghua to introduce to our friends in the Mainland and around the world.
各位朋友，接下来，让我用普通话介绍一下今天香港正式启动的大型全球宣传活动。这个全方位的宣传活动，主题是「你好，香港！」。
今年是兔年，首先祝世界各地的同胞、侨胞和朋友们，在新一年里万事如意、心想事成！
香港正处于由治及兴的新阶段，在全面复常的康庄大道上，香港动若脱兔，快速跃进。在中央政府的大力支持下，香港与内地已实现通关，和世界各地也全面接轨。
此时此刻，香港和内地以至全世界的联系已恢复正常。我们引以自豪的香港国际机场再次人流如鲫，联通香港和广东省的港珠澳大桥和西九龙高铁站也重现了穿梭两地的旅客，络绎不绝。
香港已经进入全面复苏的新里程。我们正大张旗鼓，开门迎客。香港的维港海滨、太平山顶、星光大道、主题乐园、郊野公园、地质公园等闻名全球的旅游景点，将全面迎接全球旅客共同畅游。最近落成的全新旅游地标，比如西九文化区的香港故宫文化博物馆、M+博物馆，也将为中外旅客带来全新的香港体验。
今年，我们会举办许多盛事，从金融、经济、创新科技，到体育赛事、文化艺术和美食、好酒，以至各式各样大型国际会议和展览，多不胜数。
我们今天正式启动一系列「你好，香港！Hello Hong Kong」宣传活动，包括免费派发500 000张机票，欢迎内地和海外旅客到香港来，多走走，多看看，多找机遇。
香港特区政府今年在复常的良好态势下，会带领和组织不同的访问团到内地和外国，说好香港故事，推动商贸、旅游、人文交流等。
香港已经重返国际舞台中心，全面欢迎内地和全球旅客来临。大家久别重聚，一声「你好」，胜过千言万语。热切期待，跟大家在香港见面，期待听到你们跟我们说声「你好，香港！」。
最后，我用广东话总结一下。
今日我用了两文三语讲话，正正体现香港一个很重要的独特之处，反映「背靠祖国，联通世界」这个独特优势，对香港的重要性。
香港已经恢复与内地通关，与海外恢复紧密联系。新的一年，香港市面会更添热闹，游客会大量来临，商铺丁财两旺，食肆、旅游景点会热烈地动起来、活起来，经济好起来，展现动力和蓬勃生机。
我深信，加强推广香港，吸引更多内地和海外朋友来临，绝对有利于香港的经济复苏。今日的「你好，香港！Hello Hong Kong」大型全球宣传活动启动礼，除了特区政府的官员出席之外，立法会主席、旅游发展局主席、贸易发展局主席和机场管理局主席等都来一起参与、支持。这正正标志着我们凝聚香港社会力量，团结一致，向全世界展现香港的新魅力、新发展、新机遇。
我们欢迎世界每一个角落的旅客、投资者、企业家、创新者，一起来到香港感受我们的活力，拥抱机遇，大展鸿图。
「有朋自远方来，不亦乐乎？」就让我们每一个香港市民尽好地主之谊，欢迎海内外人士来临香港，让他们亲身体验我们的好客之道。
我们期待各位新朋友、老朋友和我们讲一句「Hello!你好！」，我们欢迎你们来香港。多谢大家！
完
2023年2月2日（星期四）
香港时间17时05分