标题: 行政长官出席「香港世界青年科学大会」开幕式大会暨2024「香江诺贝论坛」致辞
链接: https://sc.isd.gov.hk/TuniS/www.info.gov.hk/gia/general/202404/13/P2024041300427.htm
--------------------------------------------------
以下是行政长官李家超今日（四月十三日）在「香港世界青年科学大会」开幕式大会暨2024「香江诺贝论坛」的致辞：
刘光源副主任（中央人民政府驻香港特别行政区联络办公室副主任）、李永胜署理特派员（中华人民共和国外交部驻香港特别行政区特派员公署署理特派员）、李然会长（香港北京高校校友联盟会长）、各位来自世界各地的知名学者、各位企业代表、各位嘉宾、各位朋友：
大家下午好！我很高兴在这个春暖花开的日子，出席首届「香港世界青年科学大会」，同时为「香江诺贝论坛」展开序幕。
今天的盛会，有来自世界各地的一共六位诺贝尔奖得主、一位图灵奖得主、多位国际著名的科学家，加上来自北京、天津、河北等地的优秀创科企业代表，以及几百位创科青年云集香港。我谨代表特区政府向各位来自海内外的创科界的专家、学者和代表，表示热烈欢迎！
接下来，我想先用英语欢迎我们来自海外的客人。
I would like to turn to our English-speaking friends now.
I am delighted to see that today's event has brought together six Nobel Laureates, one Turing Laureate, and some 20 internationally renowned academics and scientists from around the world.
Your research expertise covers an inspiring range, from astronomy, neuroscience and medicine, to electrodynamics, computer science and quantum mechanics, and a great deal more. Your contributions are invaluable to humanity and the world. We look forward to your insights at today's conference, and your inspiration to our future generation of scientists.
The Hong Kong SAR Government is committed to Hong Kong's rise as an international innovation and technology centre. We have devoted significant resources to such areas as AI (artificial intelligence) and big data, biotech, the medical sciences and new materials.
That investment continues to expand, and in far-reaching ways. This year, we are launching a 1.3 billion-US-Dollar New Industrialisation Acceleration Scheme. Companies engaged in life and health technology, AI, data science, advanced manufacturing and new energy technology may receive funding support from the Government, for as much as 26 million US dollars, on a matching basis. And those companies taking part may also receive subsidies for research talents.
We expect the Scheme will attract some 100 companies, investing at least 2.6 billion US dollars in Hong Kong.
Our startup sector last year, let me add, exceeded 4,200 companies. That's up 34 per cent over just four years ago. About 26 per cent of our startups came from abroad.
And it's not just startups we are bringing to Hong Kong. In the past 15 months or so, we have attracted some 50 high-tech companies to set up or expand their business in Hong Kong.
These high-tech firms are creating some 13,000 jobs in our city over the next few years. They're also bringing in over five billion US dollars in investment to our economy.
Hong Kong's diverse pool of talent will help to sustain the rapid growth in our I&T (innovation and technology) scene, I'm pleased to add. It helps that Hong Kong is the only Asian city with as many as five universities in the world's top 100. According to a latest survey, Hong Kong houses some of the world's top 10 schools for the studies of dentistry, nursing, education, data science and AI in our various universities. Our world-class universities help to train our excellent researchers and multi-talented workforce.
I'm just touching on a few of the many initiatives and promising areas we're fully invested in. The point, ladies and gentlemen, is that I&T is central to Hong Kong's future. And I am delighted that today's event is connecting so many world-class scientists and innovators.
Science and technology aside, find good time to enjoy the arts, culture and fabulous food everywhere you turn in Hong Kong – the East-meets-West centre for international cultural exchange. And do not forget to spend some good money here as well!
I know you will enjoy today's events, and I wish you the best of business, science and innovation in the year to come.
Now allow me to switch back to Chinese.
今天这场创科盛事，是香港特区政府和香港贸易发展局主办的「国际创科营商周」活动之一。我感谢「香港北京高校校友联盟」，联同多所院校和协办单位，举办本次活动。
特区政府全力打造国际一流开放合作平台，推动香港与世界各地的「政、产、学、研」界别互相交流，提升香港在国际上科学研究、创新创业等领域的地位。
香港在「一国两制」下享有「背靠祖国、联通世界」的独特优势，拥有世界级的科研人才和设施、与国际接轨的法律和监管制度、完善的知识产权保护。香港是亚洲唯一拥有多达五所全球百强大学的城市，培育大量优秀人才。这些多不胜数的优势，都是香港的竞争力所在，一直成功吸引世界各地的人才和企业来港发展。
特区政府将继续善用制度和人才优势，在香港建设国际创科中心，促进香港和内地以至全球创科事业的合作，贡献国家新质生产力的蓬勃发展。
除了政府的努力以外，企业的支持对创科发展同样重要。今天的活动上，多家内地的科创企业将与香港科学园和数码港等签署合作备忘录，同时我们将见证「香港创科联合发展基金」的启动，为香港创科注入全新力量。
今天的活动汇聚了多位诺贝尔奖、图灵奖得奖者和优秀科学家，他们在不同领域取得重要成就，为人类文明进步作出杰出贡献。我鼓励各位青年学者和企业代表，都以他们的奋斗精神和卓越成就为榜样，坚持探索，勇敢追梦，为人类命运共同体作出贡献！
最后，在这个美好时刻，我宣布：首届「香港世界青年科学大会」暨「香江诺贝论坛」开幕！预祝圆满成功！谢谢大家！
完
2024年4月13日（星期六）
香港时间15时35分