标题: 行政长官出席金蛇迎春庆丰年之香港贺岁烟花滙演致辞
链接: https://sc.isd.gov.hk/TuniS/www.info.gov.hk/gia/general/202501/30/P2025013000428.htm
--------------------------------------------------
以下是行政长官李家超今日（一月三十日）在金蛇迎春庆丰年之香港贺岁烟花滙演的致辞：
王冬胜主席（香港上海滙丰银行有限公司主席）、廖宜建行政总裁（香港上海滙丰银行有限公司亚太区联席行政总裁）、各位嘉宾、各位朋友：
大家新年好！今日是乙巳蛇年的大年初二，我首先在此向大家祝福，蛇年身体健康，身壮力健，心想事成。
大年初二的烟花汇演，是香港每年贺岁活动的重头戏。全港市民和来自海内外的旅客，都可以观赏在维港醉人夜景的衬托下，绚丽多彩、璀璨夺目的烟花。
今年的贺岁烟花别开生面，将呈现大熊猫的图案，与所有观众分享香港大熊猫家庭共六位成员的喜悦。相信大家都留意到，香港每年的新春烟花都有不同的新元素，为维港上空带来新的璀璨，就如灵蛇象征的灵活变通，与香港人灵活应变、创新求进的精神互相辉映。
新的一年，特区政府会继续推动香港变革创新，灵活应对各种挑战和机遇，继续发挥「一国两制」的独特优势，加强内联外通的工作，让香港在国际舞台上不断大放异彩。
我知道维港两岸数十万计的市民和旅客，都很期待今晚的烟花汇演，希望大家好好享受这个晚上。我在此感谢今年成立160周年的香港上海滙丰银行，赞助今晚的烟花汇演，为这个喜庆的节日带来更多欢乐。
我祝愿国家富强昌盛，香港繁荣兴旺，市民事事如意。接着我用英语来欢迎来自不同地方的朋友。
I'm delighted to join you at this fireworks extravaganza. Last night, we welcomed the Year of the Snake with a night parade. Tonight, we cheer it on with a fabulous fireworks show.
Hong Kong, our vibrant city, is shining brighter than ever with its unique blend of Eastern and Western cultures. As we marvel with and over the dazzling pyrotechnics lighting up the skies above Victoria Harbour, let's remember that the display is more than a cheering spectacle – more importantly, every burst of colour celebrates the diversity and soaring promise of our home.
The snake symbolises wisdom, resilience and renewal in Chinese culture. Hong Kong has long thrived on its dynamic spirit and adaptability, endlessly mingling tradition and innovation. In the Year of the Snake, Hong Kong will revitalise its strengths and boundless future.
I invite you all to enjoy what Hong Kong has to offer in the Year of the Snake. Alongside magnificent mega events such as this evening's, our city never fails to delight in its thriving wine and dine scene, breath-taking natural scenery, East-meets-West arts and cultural bounty, world-class sports and non-stop entertainment.
My thanks to HSBC for sponsoring tonight's fireworks display. HSBC celebrates its 160th anniversary this year. My warmest congratulations on your most meaningful anniversary!
I wish you all a very healthy and successful Year of the Snake. Enjoy the show, as we look forward to an even brighter tomorrow.
祝愿各位蛇年进步，心想事成，大家共同在这个欢乐的春节气氛里欣赏我们今晚璀璨的烟花。多谢大家！
完
2025年1月30日（星期四）
香港时间21时45分